# Luna Moth/Silent Ransomware Group (SRG) 
- **DATE:** 2025-05-27
- **Industry/Sector Relevance:** Legal Services and Law Firms
- **Geolocation:** United States

## Summary

The FBI has issued a warning to law firms about ongoing Luna Moth attacks. Law firms have been targeted by the group due to the sensitive data that they deal with. The sensitive data is exfiltrated and then used to extort the victim.

## TTPs Observed

- Intial Access: Spearphishing, Spearphishing via Voice

Attackers either call pretending to be IT support or email the user a link instructing them to call a fake customer support number.

- Execution: User Execution

Attackers socially engineer users to execute remote access tools, such as Zoho Assist, Syncro, AnyDesk, Splashtop, or Atera

- Persistence: External Remote Services

Remote access tools are leveraged for persistence.

- Exfiltration: Exfiltration Over Alternative Protocol
  
Data exfiltration is done via FTP using legitimate services such as winSCP and Rclone. 

## Mitre Att&ck Mapping

- Initial Access                             TA0001
- Phishing                                   T1566
- Spearphishing via Voice                    T1566.004
- User Execution                             T1204
- Persistence                                TA0003
- External Remote Services                   T1133
- Exfiltration Over Alternative Protocol     T1048

## Recommended Mitigations

- Conduct staff training on phishing
- Develop and communicate policies surrounding when and how company’s IT will authenticate themselves with employees
- Maintain regular backups of company data
- Implement two-factor authentication for all employees
- Block unsolicitied installation of RMM tools using AppLocker or Defender ASR rules
- Use XDR custom detections to quarantine suspicious tools

## Detection Guidance

The following should be monitored for:

- New unauthorized downloads of system management or remote access tools, including Zoho Assist, Syncro, AnyDesk, Splashtop, or Atera.
- WinSCP or Rclone connection made to an external IP address.
- Emails from an unnamed group claiming data was stolen.
- Voicemails or phone calls from an unnamed group claiming data was stolen.
- Emails regarding subscription services providing a phone number and requiring a call to remove pending renewal charges.
- Employees receiving unsolicited phone calls from individuals claiming to work in their IT department.

## Microsoft Defender XDR and Microsoft Sentinel Queries

Execution of Remote Access Tools (XDR):

    DeviceProcessEvents
    | where FileName has_any ("ZohoAssist.exe", "AnyDesk.exe", "Splashtop.exe")
    | project Timestamp, DeviceName, FileName, ProcessCommandLine, InititatingProcessFileName

Exfiltration Tools: WinSCP or Rclone (XDR)

    DeviceProcessEvents
    | where FileName has_any ("winscp.exe, "rclone.exe")
    | project Timestamp, DeviceName, FileName, ProcessCommandLine, InitiatingProcessFileName

User executes suspicious file from Downloads folder (XDR)

    DeviceProcessEvents
    | where FolderPath has "\\Downloads\\"
    | where FileName has_any (".exe", ".js", ".vbs", ".ps1")
    | where InitiatingProcessFileName has_any ("chrome.exe", "msedge.exe", firefox.exe")
    | project Timestamp, DeviceName, FileName, FolderPath, InitiatingProcessFileName

## Sources

- https://thehackernews.com/2025/05/hackers-are-calling-your-office-fbi.html
- https://www.ic3.gov/CSA/2025/250523.pdf










  
